.. include:: /substitutions.rsti

2.1.2 New Features and Changes
==============================

2.1.2 follows very shortly after
:doc:`2.1.1 </releases/2-1-1-new-features-and-changes>` and is primarily a security
release. Refer to the :doc:`2.1.1 release notes </releases/2-1-1-new-features-and-changes>`
for changes from 2.1 to 2.1.1.

Security Fixes
--------------

The `Heartbleed <http://heartbleed.com/>`__ OpenSSL bug and another
OpenSSL bug were both covered by the following security announcements:

-  `pfSense-SA-14\_04.openssl <https://pfsense.org/security/advisories/pfSense-SA-14_04.openssl.asc>`__

   -  `FreeBSD-SA-14:06.openssl <http://security.freebsd.org/advisories/FreeBSD-SA-14:06.openssl.asc>`__
   -  `CVE-2014-0160 <https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2014-0160>`__
      (Heartbleed)
   -  `CVE-2014-0076 <https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2014-0076>`__
      (ECDSA Flaw)

Packages also had their own independent fixes and need updating. During
the firmware update process the packages will be reinstalled properly.
Otherwise, uninstall and then reinstall packages to ensure that the
latest version of the binaries is in use.

Other Fixes
-----------

-  On packages that use row\_helper, when user clicks on add or delete
   button the page scrolls to top.
   `#3569 <http://redmine.pfsense.org/issues/3569>`__
-  Correct typo on function name in Captive Portal bandwidth allocation
-  Make extra sure that we do not start multiple instances of dhcpleases
   if, for example, the PID is stale/invalid and there is still a
   running instance.
-  Fix CRL editing. Use an alphanumeric test rather than purely
   is\_numericint because the ID is generated by uniqid and is not
   purely numeric. `#3591 <http://redmine.pfsense.org/issues/3591>`__
