Authenticating Captive Portal Users with Vouchers
=================================================

The **Voucher** functionality of Captive Portal generates codes that can
be used to gain Internet access through the Captive Portal. Each roll of
vouchers is generated with a specific time limit. This is commonly used
where authenticated time-limited Internet access is desired, without
needing to provide a username and password to users. Common uses for
Vouchers include Coffee shops, Hotels, Airports, and other similar
places.

Users enter their voucher code in the portal page and are granted access
for as long as the voucher is valid. Voucher time does not stop counting
down if a user logs out; the voucher is only valid from the start of the
session for the duration of the voucher length.

To use vouchers, a custom portal page must be used that submits the
voucher as *auth_voucher*.

Setting Up Vouchers
-------------------

The voucher system creates and verifies vouchers based on public/private
key and configuration settings.

RSA Keys
~~~~~~~~

Before the program can be used, a public/private RSA key pair must be
generated. A set is generated automatically the first time the page is
visited. A new pair may be manually
generated if desired. The maximum key length supported is 64 Bits. Using
shorter keys will make the generated vouchers shorter but eventually
less secure.


Character Set
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The character set defines the valid characters for voucher text. The set
is case sensitive and should contain printable characters (numbers,
lower case and upper case letters) that are hard to confuse with others.
For example, avoid 0 (Digit zero), O (Letter O), and l (Lowercase L), 1
(Digit One). It cannot contain a space, double quote, or comma.

Voucher Fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following fields control how the vouchers themselves are generated.
Leaving these values at their defaults is recommended but they may be
adjusted as needed. The total of all these fields must be less than the
RSA key size. For example, the default values are 16, 10, and 5. The sum
of these is 31, which is one less than 32.

-  **Number of Roll Bits**: Number of Bits used to store the Roll Id.
   Set this larger if many rolls will be active at the same time. Can be
   from 1-31.
-  **Number of Ticket Bits**: Number of Bits used to store the Ticket
   Id. Set this larger if each roll will have a large number of
   vouchers. Can be from 1-16.
-  **Number of Checksum Bits**:Reserves a range in each voucher to store
   a simple checksum over Roll# and Ticket#. Allowed range is 0-31.

Magic Number
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The **Magic Number** is stored in every voucher and verified during
voucher check. Size depends on how many bits are left by
Roll+Ticket+Checksum bits. If all bits are used, no magic number will be
used and checked.

Output Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following list contains sample voucher codes generated by pfSense® software::

  6UVeTS6II68
  kGZ38iBgyx4
  gWUhfyvWo43
  kiViNq31p7b
  jLzSQuZMPJa

The generated vouchers will be different due to the generated RSA key
pair, even if the same config file is used.

Voucher Status/Management
-------------------------

Active vouchers, roll statistics, testing, and expiration of vouchers
may all be performed on the :doc:`Captive Portal Status </captiveportal/captive-portal-status>` page for
the zone.

Testing
~~~~~~~

To test the vouchers, go to **Status > Captive Portal**, select the
zone, and visit the **Test Vouchers** tab. See :doc:`Captive Portal Status </captiveportal/captive-portal-status>`.
